Local Environment: Improve wp-now README file (#289)
WordPress/wordpress-playground: packages/wp-now/README.md

## Getting Started

Before getting started, make sure you have `nvm` installed. If you need to install it first,
[follow these installation instructions](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installation).

Follow these steps to build and run `wp-now` locally:

### Building

To build the project, use the following commands in your terminal:

1. Clone this repository locally

> 2. Execute `nvm use`

Reviewer: Should we add `npm link` too?

3. Execute `yarn install` followed by `yarn build`

### Running

1. Execute `sudo npm install -g nx@latest`. This will make `nx` command globally accessible in the project.
2. To start the web server in the plugin or theme mode (see Modes on WP-NOW section for details), run the command below. Make sure to replace `/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme` with the actual path to your plugin or theme folder.

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme
```

### Modes on WP-NOW

wp-now operates in four different modes:

-   `index`: executes a simple php file
-   `theme`: loads WordPress with your selected theme included
-   `plugin`: loads WordPress with your selected plugin included
-   `wp-content`: loads WordPress site that contains plugins and themes from the provided wp-content directory

To launch the `wp-now` in the `index`, `theme` or `plugin` mode, you can run:

```bash

> nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme

Reviewer: As https://github.com/WordPress/wordpress-playground/pull/272 is merged, should we encourage running local environments from the project directory context?

```
cd wordpress-plugin-or-theme
wp-now start
```

## Getting Started

> Before getting started, make sure you have `nvm` installed. If you need to install it first,

Reviewer 2: It's okay to require this for folks cloning the repo. Let's just add a note that it's not actually needed if you install `wp-now` from npm.

[follow these installation instructions](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installation).

Follow these steps to build and run `wp-now` locally:

### Building

To build the project, use the following commands in your terminal:

1. Clone this repository locally
2. Execute `nvm use`

> 3. Execute `yarn install` followed by `yarn build`

Reviewer 2: If folks don't have yarn yet, this unfortunately won't work. Let's either ask them to install yarn first (through `npm install -g yarn`), or change it to `npm install` and `npm run build` (after confirming it actually works).

### Running

> 1. Execute `sudo npm install -g nx@latest`. This will make `nx` command globally accessible in the project.

Reviewer 2: I didn't need `sudo` on my end. Is it actually needed?

Author: I tested without `-sudo` and it also worked so I removed it

-   `theme`: loads WordPress with your selected theme included
-   `plugin`: loads WordPress with your selected plugin included
-   `wp-content`: loads WordPress site that contains plugins and themes from the provided wp-content directory

To launch the `wp-now` in the `index` mode, you can run:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/index.php-file
```

To launch the `wp-now` in the `theme` or `plugin` mode, you can run:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme
```

To launch the `wp-now` in the `wp-content` mode, you can run:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wp-content-directory
```

Make sure to replace `/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme` or `/path/to/wp-content-directory` with the actual path to your plugin or theme folder or wp-content directory.

### Arguments supported by wp-now start

`wp-now start` currently supports the following arguments:

> -   `port`: the port number on which the server will listen. This is optional and if not provided, it will pick an open port number automatically;

Reviewer 2: Let's list these as one would pass them, so `--port` etc. It would be good to clarify whether one needs to use `--port=8888` or `--port 8888` (unless it doesn't matter).

-   `path`: the path to the PHP file or WordPress project to use. If not provided, it will use the current working directory;
-   `php`: the version of PHP to use. This is optional and if not provided, it will use a default version;

> -   `wp`: the version of WordPress to use. This is optional and if not provided, it will use a default version.

Reviewer 2: What's the default version? Latest? If so, let's say that. Ditto for other arguments.

> #### Examples of using `wp-now start` arguments:

Reviewer 2: Lovely!

Specify WordPress version, PHP version and plugin path:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme --wp=5.9 --php=7.4
```

Specify WordPress version and plugin or theme path:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme --wp=5.8
```

Specify PHP version and plugin or theme path:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme --php=7.4

> ```

Reviewer 2: These two don't add much beyond the first one, maybe they can be removed?

Follow these steps to build and run `wp-now` locally:

### Building

To build the project, use the following commands in your terminal:

1. Clone this repository locally
2. Execute `nvm use`
3. Execute `yarn install` followed by `yarn build`

### Running

1. Execute `sudo npm install -g nx@latest`. This will make `nx` command globally accessible in the project.
2. To start the web server in the plugin or theme mode (see Modes on WP-NOW section for details), run the command below. Make sure to replace `/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme` with the actual path to your plugin or theme folder.

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme
```

### Modes on WP-NOW

wp-now operates in four different modes:

-   `index`: executes a simple php file
-   `theme`: loads WordPress with your selected theme included
-   `plugin`: loads WordPress with your selected plugin included
-   `wp-content`: loads WordPress site that contains plugins and themes from the provided wp-content directory

To launch the `wp-now` in the `index`, `theme` or `plugin` mode, you can run:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme
```

> To launch the `wp-now` in the `wp-content` mode, you can run:

Reviewer 3: > To launch the `wp-now` in the `index`, `theme` or `plugin` mode, you can run:
> 
> ```bash
> nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme
> ```

The `index` will deserve it's own "section" similar to `wp-content` mode.

The mode depends on the destination folder.
If the content of the given path is a `plugin`, the mode is plugin. The equivalent for a single `theme`.
If the content is what's inside `wp-content` then `wp-content`
In any other case, `wp-now` runs in `index` mode, serving the content of the folder without mounting a WordPress instance. An `index.php` is recommended in this mode.

-   `wp-now` does not require you to install separately WordPress, create database, connect WordPress to that database, create your use or login. All of these steps are packaged into `wp now start` command and are running under the hood;
-   `wp-now` works across all platforms (Mac, Linux, Windows);
-   `wp-now` does not support custom domains or SSL;
-   `wp-now` offers `theme` and `plugin` modes specific to WordPress development;
-   `wp-now` allows to easily switch the WordPress version with `wp-now start --wp=version.number`(make sure to replace the `version.number` with the actual WordPress version);
-   `wp-now` does not support Xdebug PHP extension

Some similarities between Laravel Valet and `wp-now` to be aware of:

-   could be used for non-WordPress projects;
-   deployments are not possible on Laravel Valet and `wp-now`;
-   possible to switch easily the PHP version;
-   possibility to work on multiple WordPress sites simultaneously

### Migrating from wp-env?

If you are migrating from `wp-env`, you should be aware of the differences it has with `wp-now`:

-   `wp-now` supports non-WordPress projects;

> -   `wp-env` is Docker-based which makes it platform indepedent (although `wp-now` does run across different platforms);

Reviewer 3: We could be more explicit about the difference.

```suggestion
-   `wp-now` does not need Docker.
```

## Getting Started

Before getting started:

-   Make sure you have `nvm` installed. If you need to install it first,
    [follow these installation instructions](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installation). Please note that if you are installing `wp-now` from `npm`, **this step is not necessary**;
-   Install `yarn` by running `npm install -g yarn`

## Option 1: Using WP-NOW globally across your projects

---

### Building

To build the project, use the following commands in your terminal:

1. Clone this repository locally
2. Run `npm link` (only run it **ONCE**) to make `wp-now` available globally across your projects
3. Execute `nvm use`
4. Execute `yarn install` followed by `yarn build`

> 5. `wp-now` should be now available globally on your machine. This means that you can run `wp-now start` from any path on your local machine

Reviewer 3: Nice!

### Running

Once you have built `wp-now`, this is how you can use it:

```bash
cd wordpress-plugin-or-theme

> wp now start

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
wp-now start
```

Author: No idea where it came from 😅

-   `--php`: the version of PHP to use. This is optional and if not provided, it will use a default version which is `8.0`(example of usage: `--php=7.4`);
-   `--wp`: the version of WordPress to use. This is optional and if not provided, it will use a default version. The default version is set to the [latest WordPress version](https://wordpress.org/download/releases/)(example of usage: `--wp=5.8`)

#### Example of using `wp-now start` arguments:

Specify plugin path, WordPress version, PHP version and port number:

```bash
nx preview wp-now start --path=/path/to/wordpress-plugin-or-theme --wp=5.9 --php=7.4 --port=3000
```

Please note: if you use `npm link` and are executing `wp-now` from the plugin or theme folder, you don't need to specify the path. In that case, the command would be:

```bash
wp-now start --wp=5.9 --php=7.4 --port=3000
```

## How to install WP-NOW from npm (not available yet)

To install `wp-now` directly from `npm`, execute:

```bash
npm install -g @wordpress/wp-now
```

Once installed, you can use it like so:

```bash
cd wordpress-plugin-or-theme

> wp now start

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
wp-now start
```

```

## Testing

To run the unit tests, use the following command:

```bash
nx test wp-now
```

## Other important technical details

> -   The `~/.wp-now` home directory is used to store the WP versions and the `wp-content` folders for projects using theme and plugin mode. The path to `wp-conten` directory for the `plugin` and `theme` modes is `~/.wp-now/wp-content/${projectName}`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   The `~/.wp-now` home directory is used to store the WP versions and the `wp-content` folders for projects using theme and plugin mode. The path to `wp-content` directory for the `plugin` and `theme` modes is `~/.wp-now/wp-content/${projectName}`.
```

nx test wp-now
```

> ### Migrating from Laravel Valet?

Reviewer 2: nice!

If you are migrating from Laravel Valet, you should be aware of the differences it has with `wp-now`:

> -   `wp-now` does not require you to install separately WordPress, create database, connect WordPress to that database, create your use or login. All of these steps are packaged into `wp now start` command and are running under the hood;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `wp-now` does not require you to install WordPress separately, create a database, connect WordPress to that database, or create a user account. All of these steps are handled by the `wp now start` command under the hood;
```

> -   `wp-now` works across all platforms (Mac, Linux, Windows);

Reviewer 2: Did anyone actually test it on Windows? 😅

Author: I am not quite sure, I have a Windows machine at home - I can try it later today 😅

Reviewer 2: Awesome, thank you!

Quick thought: Quite a few places in wp-now hardcode `/` as a directory separator instead of using `path.join()` but I'm not sure if that's still a problem on modern Windows.

> -   `wp-now` does not support custom domains or SSL;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `wp-now` does not support custom domains or SSL (yet!);
```

> -   `wp-now` offers `theme` and `plugin` modes specific to WordPress development;

Reviewer 2: This doesn't mean much if I haven't read the other part of the README. How about this:

```suggestion
-   `wp-now` works with WordPress themes and plugins even if you don't have WordPress installed;
```

-   `wp-now` allows to easily switch the WordPress version with `wp-now start --wp=version.number`(make sure to replace the `version.number` with the actual WordPress version);

> -   `wp-now` does not support Xdebug PHP extension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `wp-now` does not support Xdebug PHP extension (yet!)
```

Some similarities between Laravel Valet and `wp-now` to be aware of:

-   could be used for non-WordPress projects;

> -   deployments are not possible on Laravel Valet and `wp-now`;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   deployments are unsupported by both Laravel Valet and `wp-now`;
```
